---
number: 8
title: 'Digital Critical Edition of Apocryphal Literature: Sharing the Pipeline'
speakers:
  - violeta-seretan
#Add relevant names as listed in the person.yaml doc.
synthesis: docs/doc-name.pdf
---

# Template for Event Sessions

## Abstract

The emerging field of Digital Scholarly Editing, concerned with the application
of the digital paradigm to textual criticism, offers a range of software
solutions for assisting critical editors in their task of documenting textual
variation. But how to go from a set of disparate of tools and resources to an
integrated pipeline, where the data travels seamlessly from one format to
another while meeting the requirements of each component? In this paper, we
explain how we build and share an integrated processing pipeline that takes us
from manuscript transcriptions in TEI XML format to a graph representation of
textual variation, which constitutes the basis for the editorial work and the
creation of the actual edition. With Docker Compose as the only technical
prerequisite, running the pipeline is only one command away: the environments
needed to run each software component are set up automatically, the processing
begins, and at the end, a web server is launched which displays the
automatically‑built variant graphs ready for manual analysis using a dedicated
online tool, Stemmaweb. This is an example of how technological advances are
exploited to alleviate the technical burden put on editors.

<Link link="https://serval.unil.ch/notice/serval:BIB_C8802C82FDDF">Get full paper</Link>
<Speakers>
<Speaker speaker="violeta-seretan">

Violeta Seretan is a Senior Researcher in Digital Humanities at the University
of Lausanne and a member of the ENLAC SNSF-funded project on digital critical
editing of apocryphal literature (2017-2021). She earned a M.Sc. in Computer
Science from the University of Iasi and a Ph.D. in Computational Linguistics
from the University of Geneva. Between 2002 and 2010, she conducted research in
Natural Language Processing at the Department of Linguistics of the University
of Geneva, with a focus on the automatic identification of phraseological units
and their treatment in syntactic parsing and machine translation. Her monograph
“Syntax‑Based Collocation Extraction” was awarded the Latsis Prize, the most
prestigious academic distinction in Switzerland. After a post-doctoral
fellowship at the Institute for Language, Cognition and Computation of the
University of Edinburgh, in 2011 she joined the Department of Translation
Technology of the University of Geneva, where she conducted research on
pre-editing and post-editing for machine translation in the framework of the
ACCEPT European project she was a coordinator of. She has taught extensively and
authored more than 50 publications on topics related to human language
technology and digital humanities, including syntactic parsing, machine
translation, lexical acquisition, text simplification, and digital scholarly
editing.

</Speaker>

</Speakers>
