---
number: 2
title: Supporting Sustainable Digital Data Workflows in the Art and Humanities
speakers:
  - vera-chiquet
#Add relevant names as listed in the person.yaml doc.
synthesis: docs/doc-name.pdf
---

# Template for Event Sessions

## Abstract

The Data and Service Center for the Humanities (DaSCH) operates as a platform
for humanities research data and ensures access to this data and promotes the
networking of data with other databases (linked open data), to ad value for
further research and the interested public. As a competence center for digital
methods and long-term use of digital data, it supports the hermeneutically
oriented humanities in the use of state-of-the-art digital research methods.
Focusing on qualitative data and associated digital objects (images, sound,
video, etc.) in the cultural heritage field.

Long-term archiving or access is a major topic after the digital turn in the
humanities, as many funding agencies such as the Swiss National Science
Foundation and the European Commission are now requiring that a data management
plan be in place in order to receive research funding. This new imperative
raises many questions in the scientific community. This papers points out the
contributions of the DaSCH for digital humanities researchers and the advantages
of interoperability.

<Link link="https://zenodo.org/record/3754264#.XqF0gy9PjOQ">Get full paper on Zenodo</Link>
<Speakers>
<Speaker speaker="vera-chiquet">

Vera Chiquet is a research assistant at the DigitalHumanities Lab of the
University of Basel. She is doing research in the field of photography, visual
studies, digital humanities, art history, cultural heritage preservation and
computational photography. Besides research, lecturing and academic
administration she works at the DaSCH as research assistant and consulting for
project partners.

</Speaker>

</Speakers>
