---
number: 9
title:
  'The WoPoss Workflow: the Semantic Annotation of Modality in a Diachronic
  Corpus'
speakers:
  - francesca-dell-oro
  - helena-bermudez-sabel
  - paola-marongiu
#Add relevant names as listed in the person.yaml doc.
synthesis: docs/doc-name.pdf
---

# Template for Event Sessions

## Abstract

The FNS project A world of possibilities (WoPoss) studies the evolution of modal
meanings in the Latin language. Passages expressing modal notions such as
‘possibility and ‘necessity’ are annotated following a pipeline that combines
both automatic and manual annotation. This paper discusses the creation,
annotation and processing of the WoPoss corpus. Texts are first gathered from
different online open access resources to create the initial dataset. Due to the
heterogeneity of formats and encodings, these texts are regularized before the
application of an automatic linguistic annotation. The annotated files are then
uploaded to the annotation platform INCEpTION. Through this platform, annotators
add the relevant linguistic and semantic information following the WoPoss
guidelines. The results of the automatic annotation are also curated. The
fine-grained semantic annotation is the core activity of the WoPoss workflow,
thus this paper focuses on the preparation of files and how the semantic
annotation task is tackled.

<Link link="https://zenodo.org/record/3739440#.Xod0qpMzZTY">Get full paper on Zenodo</Link>
<Speakers>
<Speaker speaker="francesca-dell-oro">

Francesca Dell’Oro is SNSF assistant professor of diachronic linguistics at the
University of Lausanne and the PI of the WoPoss SNSF project on modalisation
paths in the Latin language. She is a historical linguist with a strong interest
in semantics. Her research and expertise spans from the linguistic analysis of
ancient documents in their material context and the epistemological analysis of
key concepts in the history of linguistics to the development of complementary
methods which combine computational tools and philological expertise.

</Speaker>

<Speaker speaker="helena-bermudez-sabel">

Helena Bermúdez Sabel holds a PhD in Medieval Studies from the Universidade de
Santiago de Compostela (2019). Her doctoral research focused on the exploration
of digital scholarly editing models for the study of linguistic variation. She
is currently a postdoctoral researcher in the SNSF project A World of
Possibilities (WoPoss) hosted at the University of Lausanne. Before this
position, she has participated in projects at the intersection of computational
methods and philology. Helena is proficient in Semantic Web and XML
technologies. She is especially interested in data modeling and the
formalization of annotation schemes.

</Speaker>

<Speaker speaker="paola-marongiu">

Paola Marongiu is a PhD student in Linguistics at the University of Lausanne,
Section des Sciences du Langage et de l’Information, and Assistant in the FNS
project A world of Possibilities (WoPoss). Her research interests include
Theoretical Linguistics, with a focus on Latin and Modality, Digital Humanities
and Computational Linguistics. In her PhD thesis she performs a quantitative and
qualitative analysis of the co-occurrence of modal markers in Latin, employing
computational methods and resources. In 2018 she obtained a Master degree in
Theoretical and Applied Linguistics from the University of Pavia, with a thesis
focused on the conversion of the Index Thomisticus Treebank into the Universal
Dependencies annotation style. She has a Bachelor in Modern Studies, obtained
from the University of Bologna in 2016.

</Speaker>

</Speakers>
