---
number: 6
title: 'The Grammateus Project: from Ancient Greek Papyri to a Web Application'
speakers:
  - elisa-nury
#Add relevant names as listed in the person.yaml doc.
synthesis: docs/doc-name.pdf
---

# Template for Event Sessions

## Abstract

This paper describes the workflow of the Grammateus project, from gathering data
on Greek documentary papyri to the creation of a web application. The first
stage is the selection of a corpus and the choice of metadata to record:
papyrology specialists gather data from printed editions, existing online
resources and digital facsimiles. In the next step, this data is transformed
into the EpiDoc standard of XML TEI encoding, to facilitate its reuse by others,
and processed for HTML display. We also reuse existing text transcriptions
available on <http://papyri.info/>. Since these transcriptions may be regularly
updated by the scholarly community, we aim to access them dynamically. Although
the transcriptions follow the EpiDoc guidelines, the wide diversity of the
papyri as well as small inconsistencies in encodings make data reuse
challenging. Currently our data is available on an institutional GitLab
repository, and we will archive our final dataset according to the FAIR
principles.

<Link link="https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-02534936">Get full paper on HAL</Link>
<Speakers>
<Speaker speaker="elisa-nury">

Elisa Nury is a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Geneva for the
Grammateus project on Greek documentary papyri. In 2018, she completed a Ph.D.
in Digital Humanities at the University of Kingâ€™s College London, UK, on the
topic of automated collation tools and digital critical editions. She graduated
from the University of Lausanne, Switzerland, with a specialisation in History
of the Book and Critical Edition. Her research interests include Latin
literature, digital humanities and digital scholarly editing.

</Speaker>

</Speakers>
