---
number: 1
title:
  'Voting on Faith: Digital Humanities and the Mapping of Reformation Ballots'
speakers:
  - marc-aberle
  - francesco-beretta
  - fabrice-fluckiger
#Add relevant names as listed in the person.yaml doc.
synthesis: docs/doc-name.pdf
---

# Template for Event Sessions

## Abstract

In the 16th century, ballots were held in a significant number of cities and
villages under supervision of the Swiss cantons in order to choose between the
reformed ideas and the teachings of the Roman Church. This workflow paper aims
to demonstrate how using the symogih.org information system gives new insights
in crucial aspects of the voting process. Developed by the LARHRA in Lyon,
[symogih.org](symogih.org) is an open modular platform which stores
geohistorical information and allows researchers to share knowledge in a
collaborative environment, using a CIDOC CRM compatible, event-centred
extensible model. It allows to collect and link together data in order to
identify and analyse key configurations and processes about these ballots on
faith, such as the definition of questions submitted to the voters; the
identification of the actors allowed to cast a vote; the networks of alliances
and overlapping jurisdictions characterising the relations between communes,
parishes and magistrates. The paper will therefore show how digital humanities
contributes to a better understanding why a vote was considered as the right
path to a wise religious choice and under which circumstances such ballots were
organized in Reformation times.

<Link link="https://halshs.archives-ouvertes.fr/halshs-02532087">Get full paper from HAL</Link>
<Speakers>
<Speaker speaker="marc-aberle">

Marc Aberlé works at the University of Neuchâtel as a member of the SNF-funded
[Reformation, local assemblies and ballots](http://p3.snf.ch/project-162968)
project. He is currently writing a PhD thesis about the link between
Protestantism and Democracy. In order to deliver a better understanding of this
relation, he analyses the complex thought patterns and intellectual networks at
the core of this idea, which brought many protestant thinkers and political
actors to find themselves sharing common values.

</Speaker>

<Speaker speaker="francesco-beretta">

Francesco Beretta is a CNRS research fellow. Since 2009 he is head of the Pôle
histoire numérique within the Laboratoire de recherche historique Rhône-Alpes
(LARHRA CNRS UMR 5190 – Universités de Lyon et Grenoble). Specialist in the
history of Roman Inquisition, in the intellectual history of Catholicism and the
history of science, he has taught in different universities in Fribourg,
Lausanne, Paris, Lyon and Neuchâtel. In digital humanities, his domains of
competence are notably in the field of data modelling and curation, ontologies,
relational databases, GIS and semantic text encoding in XML/TEI. He contributed
significantly to the establishment of the symogih.org and dataforhistory.org
projects.

</Speaker>

<Speaker speaker="fabrice-fluckiger">

Fabrice Flückiger works at the Ludwig-Maximilian-Universität in Munich on “Les
miroirs du magistrat”, a project about practices and representations of the Good
Government in 16th century reformed cities funded by the SNF. He wrote a PhD on
religious disputations held in the Swiss Confederacy during the early years of
the Reformation, before joining the “Reformation, local assemblies and ballots”
research project at the University of Neuchâtel. He is also an associate
researcher at the Centre Européen des Études Républicaines (CEDRE) in Paris.

</Speaker>

</Speakers>
