---
number: 5
title: Evaluation Acknowledgement and Credit Circulation
speakers:
  - julien-bordier
  - ondrej-kosarko
  - ioana-galleron
synthesis: docs/DARIAH_Winter_School-5-EvaluationAcknowledgementandCreditCirculation.pdf
---

# Evaluation Acknowledgement and Credit Circulation

## Open peer review & Open commentary: about an experiment: Julien Bordier

### Abstract

_Open peer review & Open commentary: about an experiment._

For five months, the OA journal Vertigo experimented both open peer review and
open commentary devices within its scientific blog. While the first consisted
strictly in opening a classical pre-publication review process, the second was
inviting the whole “scientific community” to comment pre-publications in order
to improve them before submission. In both of the two devices, every reviews,
comments and annotations are accessible to everyone online, as the authors,
reviewers and commentators names. The sociologist in charge of this project will
present the details of the experiment, its main results – need of human
mediation, technical possibilities and limitations – and will try to raise the
questions and potentialities issued by new forms of reviewing in academic
publishing.

<Download download="docs/5.1-Bordier.pdf" />

<Speakers>

<Speaker speaker="julien-bordier">

Julien Bordier, sociology PhD, independent scholar, editorial adviser, works on
public-space issues. He conducted the open peer review experiment for
[OpenEdition / Centre pour l’édition électronique ouverte](https://www.openedition.org/).

</Speaker>

</Speakers>

## Simplifying license selection: Ondřej Košarko

### Abstract

_Simplifying license selection._

The necessity to share and preserve data and software is becoming more and more
important. Without the data and the software, research cannot be reproduced and
tested by the scientific community. Making data and software simply reusable and
legally unequivocal requires choosing a license for data and software which is
not a trivial task.

<Download download="docs/5.2-Kosarko.pdf" />

<Speakers>

<Speaker speaker="ondrej-kosarko">

Ondřej Košarko is a programmer working at the Institute of Formal and Applied
Linguistics ([UFAL](https://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/ondrej-kosarko)), Prague, Czech
Republic. He is one of the developers behind
[LINDAT/CLARIN](https://lindat.mff.cuni.cz/en/)
[repository](https://lindat.mff.cuni.cz/repository/xmlui/). The repository is
based on [DSpace](http://www.dspace.org/) and has been modified to meet the
needs of CLARIN centers. This modified version is now deployed in several member
institutions. He is also responsible for parts of
[shortref.org](http://shortref.org/), a tool to ease persistent data citation,
and various other bits and pieces like this guide for choosing the
[adequate licence](https://ufal.github.io/public-license-selector/).

</Speaker>

</Speakers>

## European Network for Research Evaluation in the Social Sciences and Humanities: Ioana Galleron

### Abstract

_Data informed research evaluation: challenges of data collection and data
standardisation in the SSH._

Evaluation has always been perceived as a difficult area for the SSH for a
number of reasons. One of the problems is the fact that the most common
procedures have been fine-tuned to the so-called hard sciences and as such are
ill adapted the SSH disciplines. While abundant information exists about
research practices, disciplinary biases and dissemination traditions in STEM
fields, the situation is at least contrasted between Nordic and Southern
countries with regards to the monitoring of the research production/outputs in
SSH disciplines. This presentation will briefly introduce the
[COST Action CA15137](http://enressh.eu/), dedicated to the creation of a
network of evaluators for the SSH disciplines, then will focus on the needs and
the challenges of data collection for an informed peer evaluation of the SSH.

<Download download="docs/5.3-Galleron.pdf" />

<Speakers>

<Speaker speaker="ioana-galleron">

[Ioana Galleron](http://www.licorn-research.fr/galleron.html) is a Senior
lecturer in French language and literature. Her research interests are the
French theater of the 17th and 18th century, as well as the evaluation of
research in the SSH. She is involved in several projects of electronic edition
of plays (see
[http://www.licorn-research.fr/Boissy.html](http://www.licorn-research.fr/Boissy.html)),
and in a research group of the
[consortium CAHIER](https://cahier.hypotheses.org/?lang=en_GB), dedicated to
computer-assisted literary analysis. Since April 2016, she is the Chair of the
[COST Action CA15137](http://enressh.eu/).

</Speaker>

</Speakers>
