---
number: 6
title: Case studies
speakers:
  - pierre-mounier
  - vojtech-malinek
  - maciej-maryl
  - kira-kovalenko
  - tessa-free
  - adele-valeria-messina
  - eliza-papaki
synthesis: docs/DARIAH_Winter_School-6-CaseStudies.pdf
---

# Case studies

## OpenEdition: towards a European infrastructure for open access publication in humanities and social sciences: Pierre Mounier

### Abstract

_Towards a European infrastructure for open access publication in humanities and
social sciences._

[OpenEdition](http://www.openedition.org/?lang=en) gathers four platforms for
open access publications in humanities and social sciences: journals, books,
scientific programs and academic blogs. Based in France, OpenEdition initiated
specific programs in several European countries to be able to offer an
international and multilingual infrastructure, currently disseminating online
and open access more than half million academic documents coming from more than
twenty countries in 14 languages. OpenEdition aims now at developing a
distributed European wide infrastructure with 19 partners. Named
[OPERAS](http://operas.hypotheses.org/), this new initiative will foster
cooperation at European scale and help humanities and social sciences join the
common effort for the development of Open Science.

<Download download="docs/6.1-Mounier.pdf" />

<Speakers>

<Speaker speaker="pierre-mounier">

[Pierre Mounier](http://orcid.org/0000-0003-0691-6063) is deputy director of
[OpenEdition](http://www.openedition.org/?lang=en), a comprehensive
infrastructure based in France for open access publication and communication in
the humanities and social sciences. OpenEdition offers several platforms for
journals, scientific announcements, academic blogs, and, finally, books, in
different languages and from different countries. Pierre teaches digital
humanities at the EHESS in Paris. He has published several books about the
social and political impact of ICT, digital publishing and digital humanities.

</Speaker>

</Speakers>

## Czech Literary Bibliography: Vojtěch Malínek

### Abstract

_The Czech Literary Bibliography._

The aim of this paper is to give a short presentation about Czech literary
bibliography research infrastructure, its activities in the last years and its
plans for the future. The stress will be put on RETROBI software, developed as a
result of project of digitasation of card catalogue of so called Retrospective
bibliography of Czech literature 1770-1945. RETROBI software enables fulltext
and semistructured searching in OCR representations of original catalogue cards
and offers features for online editing and indexing of the data. Afterwards the
possibilities of using CLB data for statistical and quantitative research in the
field will be presented.

<Download download="docs/6.2-Malinek.pdf" />

<Speakers>

<Speaker speaker="vojtech-malinek">

Vojtěch Malínek, Institute of Czech Literature of the Czech Academy of Sciences

</Speaker>

</Speakers>

## Turning the Polish Literary Bibliography into a Research Tool: Challenges, Standards, Interoperability: Maciej Maryl

### Abstract

_The Polish Literary Bibliography._

This presentation will discuss the research project aiming to transform a vast
database of Polish Literary Bibliography (PBL) into a fully operational, digital
research infrastructure for the study of Polish literature and culture of 20th
century. The project entails retrodigitisation and transformation of the
existing records into a coherent database as well as the development of data
analysis tools for literary researchers. PBL is a specialized bibliography
containing records about various types of materials concerning literature and
literary scholarship (e.g. literary works, books, journals, magazines, articles,
documents, dramas, movies, TV programs, conferences, awards, etc.), which are
annotated in the unique semantic framework. In that respect it is similar to
other national projects such as ABELL (Annual Bibliography of English Language
and Literature). The online database contains records for 1988-2002 with printed
volumes covering the period 1939-1987. In my presentation I would like to focus
on the following issues:

- Challenges: the methodological problems of dealing with data collected during
  a long stretch of 60 years, including the conversion of OCR'd scans into a
  database.
- Standards: choosing the right ontology for the data and mapping our resources
  onto it.
- Interoperability: plans to link the resources with LOD cloud and other
  bibliographies (hopefully with the Bibliography of Czech Literature too).

<Download download="docs/6.3-Maciej.pdf" />

<Speakers>

<Speaker speaker="maciej-maryl">

Deputy Director, Institute of Literary Research of the Polish Academy of
Sciences.

</Speaker>

</Speakers>

## Creation of Open Data Resources: Benefits of Cooperation: Kira Kovalenko & Eveline Wandl-Vogt

### Abstract

_Creation of Open Data Resources: Benefits of Cooperation._

In the presentation we a going to discuss about cooperation between Austrian
Centre for Digital Humanities (Austrian Academy of Sciences) and Institute for
Linguistic Studies (Russian Academy of Sciences). As a result of the
collaboration, three projects are going to be developed: digital version of the
Dictionary of Russian Dialects, electronic collection of Russian manuscript
lexicons and a database of the Russian plant names (11-17 cc.). All the projects
will be implemented with the use of cutting-edge technologies and will be
available online.

<Download download="docs/6.4-Kovalenko.pdf" />

<Speakers>

<Speaker speaker="kira-kovalenko">

Kira Kovalenko, Institute for Linguistic Studies (Russia) &amp; Austrian Centre
for Digital Humanities (Austria) &amp; Eveline Wandl-Vogt, Austrian Centre for
Digital Humanities (Austria).

</Speaker>

</Speakers>

## Network of Dutch War Sources: pursuits and goals: Tessa Free

### Abstract

_The Network of Dutch War sources._

In Holland, there are around four hundred organizations keeping a collection
from or about the Netherlands in the Second World War. The program ‘Network of
Dutch war sources’ (Netwerk Oorlogsbronnen) intends to make the geographically
scattered sources digital findable and usable. We do that by engaging in or
leading small projects with several participating organizations. For example
creating a second world war – thesaurus, implemented in collection management
systems. The use of OCR and NER-techniques to make millions of documents
accessible on a document level. And adding persistent geographical codes to
sources to enhance searching with a focus on location.

The Network of Dutch War sources is a program of ‘NIOD institute for war
holocaust and genocide’. See
[www.oorlogsbronnen.nl](http://www.oorlogsbronnen.nl) for more information about
the program.

<Download download="docs/6.5-Free.pdf" />

<Speakers>

<Speaker speaker="tessa-free">

Tessa Free, Network of Dutch War Sources.

</Speaker>

</Speakers>

## Open access meets productivity: “Scholarship, see effect of being an efficient source”: Adele Valeria Messina

### Abstract

_How do we use an EBSCO database? How, without difficulty, can an article be
found?_

The primary talking point of it is about the efficiency of Open Access in social
sciences and humanities. The talk will therefore introduce the issue of a case
study: “the method of online academic reviews and the alleged delay of
post-Holocaust Sociology”. The presentation will confer about this method,
halfway between hemerographia and metasociology, and about the measurement of
some important indexes, such as “the speed of publication” of research and “the
scientific impact” of it on the academic public. It argues that open access and
usability of data need to be understood as more than simply a kind of digital
research. The project will support the circulation and connecting of data and
will be linked with well versed institutions.

This can happen best when there are energetic institutional means for the
researchers: when they, to all intents and purposes, try to claim what they want
is when digital democracy becomes challenging, as it is now, in Europe.

<Download download="docs/6.6-Messina.pdf" />

<Speakers>

<Speaker speaker="adele-valeria-messina">

Adele Valeria Messina, University of Calabria.

</Speaker>

</Speakers>

## Case Studies on digital content reuse in the context of Europeana Cloud: Eliza Papaki

### Abstract

The use of digital content has, over the past couple of decades, become almost
the norm for many researchers within the Humanities and Social Sciences.
Curation of both digitised legacy data and born-digital content, however, makes
it imperative that items are managed at an individual level in order for larger
collections of data to be trusted and useful. Europeana is shifting focus from
being a discovery portal of over 30 million digitised items to a platform that
allows third parties to develop tools based on its content. In order to gather
information about the potential use of existing collections in Europeana,
research was conducted into developing an empirically-based, comprehensive list
of User Requirements. Investigations included current data reuse within the
sector, the quality of the content itself and identification of topics with
which Europeana can be of most use.

In our investigations through the Europeana Cloud project, we took the approach
from both users and providers. Topics were selected for trial using Europeana’s
current content, and other potential resources, both of which were subjected to
questioning: how useful was the data to them?; what tools or services could be
used with it; what were the failings of the content and how might that be
overcome? In this presentation, two of these topics have been selected as case
studies: Conflict-related Population Displacement; and Children’s Literature.

<Download download="docs/6.7-Papaki.pdf" />

<Speakers>

<Speaker speaker="eliza-papaki">

Eliza Papaki, Digital Curation Unit, ATHENA R.C., Greece.

</Speaker>

</Speakers>
