---
number: 4
title: Persistent Identification
speakers:
  - ondrej-kosarko
  - matthew-munson
  - christopher-blackwell
synthesis: docs/DARIAH_Winter_School-4-PersistentIdentification.pdf
---

# Persistent Identification

## Persistent identifiers: Ondřej Košarko

### Abstract

Persistent identifiers.

The proliferation of datasets and services available online invites researchers
to link them from their works. A link to a service, that makes it possible to
explore the data in question yourself, might be more valuable than a picture.
But these types of online resources and/or the infrastructures they live in are
constantly evolving. Which effectively leads to dead links or links to a
different version of the resource. PID systems can help with keeping the
locations of resources up to date as well as store information about what the
resource is.

<Download download="docs/4.1-Kosarko.pdf" />

<Speakers>

<Speaker speaker="ondrej-kosarko">

Ondřej Košarko is a programmer working at the Institute of Formal and Applied
Linguistics ([UFAL](https://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/ondrej-kosarko)), Prague, Czech
Republic. He is one of the developers behind
[LINDAT/CLARIN](https://lindat.mff.cuni.cz/en/)
[repository](https://lindat.mff.cuni.cz/repository/xmlui/). The repository is
based on [DSpace](http://www.dspace.org/) and has been modified to meet the
needs of CLARIN centers. This modified version is now deployed in several member
institutions. He is also responsible for parts of
[shortref.org](http://shortref.org/), a tool to ease persistent data citation,
and various other bits and pieces like this guide for choosing the
[adequate licence](https://ufal.github.io/public-license-selector/).

</Speaker>

</Speakers>

## Canonical Text Services: Matthew Munson &amp; Christopher Blackwell

### Abstract

Canonical Text Services.

Canonical Text Services (CTS) is a protocol for identification and retrieval of
passages of text by means of machine-actionable citations in URN form. CTS is
not bibliographic database or commentary framework, but a protocol intended to
serve use-cases like those. CTS consists of a specification for URN citations,
and a specification for a service-protocol. CTS was created for the Homer
Multitext to address that project’s need to integrate (a) an open-ended
diversity of texts, (b) many specific versions of the same text, some digital,
some in print, and some in manuscript, many fragmentary, (c) at arbitrary levels
of abstraction (“Iliad Book 2”) or specificity (“The third letter sigma at Iliad
1.2 on the Venetus A manuscript”), (d) with the assumption that technologies for
storage, retrieval, and display will change completely during the project’s
lifetime. This presentation will introduce CTS as a possible model for
persistent identifiers in a large-scale, distributed digital library. The first
part of the presentation will offer an overview of the protocol, the CTS URN
citation scheme, and the CTS Service requests, with attention to applications
and limitations of CTS. The second part will present how the Open Greek and
Latin project of the University of Leipzig is implementing CTS and the tools it
is making available for editors, publishers, and consumers of CTS texts.

<Download download="docs/4.2-Munson.pdf" />

<Speakers>

<Speaker speaker="matthew-munson">

Matthew Munson received an MA from the University of Virginia in Religious
Studies, his thesis studying the use of the Greek word for law (νόμος) in the
letters of the Apostle Paul. Before joining the Digital Humanities Team, he
worked at the Scholars’ Lab at the University of Virginia and in the DARIAH
project at the Göttingen Centre for Digital Humanities at the University of
Göttingen, Germany. He is currently working on his PhD in Theology in Leipzig
studying the automatic extraction of semantic data from biblical texts and the
automatic tracking of semantic drift between corpora.

</Speaker>

<Speaker speaker="christopher-blackwell">

Christopher W. Blackwell holds a B.A, summa cum laude from Marlboro Collect in
Vermont, USA. He holds a Ph.D. from Duke University, where he was the William H.
Willis Fellow in Classics. Since 1995 he has been on the faculty of Classics at
Furman University in South Carolina, USA. He served as Chair of the Classics
Department for 14 years, until 2015, and is currently the Louis G. Forgione
University Professor. Since 2001 he has been Project Architect, with Neel Smith,
of the Homer Multitext, a project of the Center for Hellenic Studies of Harvard
University under the editorship of Casey Dué and Mary Ebbott. With Smith,
Blackwell is co-creator of the Canonical Text Services protocol and the CITE
Architecture for identification and retrieval of scholarly resources by
canonical citation in networked environments. Blackwell has led several
digitization projects and has collaborated with scholars in the U.K., Italy,
Germany, the Netherlands, Greece, and Croatia. He has published two books on the
history of Alexander the Great, and articles on topics in Classics, Computer
Science, Intellectual Property Law, and Botany.

</Speaker>

</Speakers>
